ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
 Unit-7, Lesson-6সুপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থী, শুভেচ্ছা নিয়ো। নতুন বই এবং নতুন মানবণ্টনের আলোকে ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের Unit-7-এর
 Lesson-6 (Love for humanity) নিয়ে আলোচনা করা হলো। 2. Answer the following questions.a) Why was Mother
 Teresa moved?b) What was ‘Nirmal Hridoy’?c) Why did Mother Teresa and her fellow nuns gather
 the dying people off the streets and bring them to ‘Nirmal Hridoy’.d) When did she
 get the Balzan prize?e) What does the world salute her for?f) Why do you think
 Mother Teresa won so many awards?g) What does ‘Nirmal Hridoy’ stand for?h) Is ‘Nirmal Hridoy’
 a place of purity and peace?i) Why did Mother Teresa want the dying people to
 feel that they deserve care and love too?j) What have you learnt from Mother Teresa?Answer-2
 :a) Mother Teresa was moved because she saw the presence of the sick and dying
 on the streets of kolkata.b) ‘Nirmal Hridoy’ was the home for the dying destitute which
 was founded by Mother Teresa.c) Mother Teresa and her fellow nuns gathered the dying people
 off the streets and brought them to Nirmal Hridoy so that they could get special
 care before their death.d) She got the Balzan Prize in 1978.e) The world salutes her
 for her love and compassion for humanity.f) Mother Teresa won so many awards because of
 her work for humanity.g) ‘Nirmal Hridoy’ stands for pure heart.h) Yes, ‘Nirmal Hridoy’ is a
 place of purity and peace.i) Mother Teresa wanted the dying people to feel that they
 deserved care and love too because she believed that all are equal to God.j) We
 have learnt from Mother Teresa to love humanity and to serve the needy. 3. Fill in
 each gap with a suitable word of your own based on the information in the
 text.The (a)—works of Mother Teresa will (b)—be remembered. She was a lover of (c)—. Her
 service to the poor (d)—earned reputation and (e)—throughout the world. A number of awards (f)—been
 received by her. Among the awards, the Nobel Prize for peace is (g)—. She died
 at the (h)—of 87. The world cannot help (i)—her for the humanity she (j)— to
 the distressed.or,Mother Teresa was shocked to see the sick and dying people (a)—on the street.
 She then (b)—to do something for these (c)—people. So she established ‘Nirmal Hridoy’ a (d)—for
 the dying people. She brought these sick people to the home to (e)—care and give
 (f)—The whole world has (g)—her work. She has worked to (h)—peace in society and (i)—this
 she has been (j)—the Nobel Prize for peace.Answer-3 :(a) humanitarian (b) always (c) mankind (d)
 people (e) people (e) recognition(f) had (g) remarkable (h) age (h) age(i) saluting (j) showedor,
 (a) lying (b) decided (c) helpless(d) home (e) take (f) shelter(g) recognized (h) promote (i)
 awarded.  শিক্ষক (প্রা.), ঢাকা পাবলিক স্কুল অ্যান্ড কলেজ, ঢাকা # পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল
ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
