৬ষ্ঠ শ্রেণীর পড়া: ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
 Lesson 12  Birds of Bangladeshপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থী, পূর্বপ্রকাশের পর আজ ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের Lesson 12:
 Birds of Bangladesh নিয়েআলোচনা করা হলো. 4. Make five sentences from the substitution table.Answer-4 :a.
 Benebau is a beautiful bird.b. It is called Black headed Oriole in English.c. It resembles
 the mayna, another familiar bird of Bangladesh.d. It lives in round shaped nests.e. The nests
 are built with dry grass and barks of trees.5. Rearrange the following sentencesThe black headed
 Oriole is one of them. Due to geographical location, plenty of fauna are found here.
 Beside Bangladesh, it is also found in different Asian countries. Bangladesh is the land of
 different kind animals. It is known as Benebau to us.Answer-5 :Bangladesh is the land of
 different kind animals. Due to geographical location, plenty of fauna are found here. The black
 headed Oriole is one of them. It is known as Benebau to us. Beside Bangladesh,
 it is also found in different Asian countries.6. True of false. If false, give the
 correct answera. Bangladesh is enriched naturally.b. The Bangladeshi look down upon their country.c. The country
 is gifted with natural resources.d. Bangladesh is full of natural resources because of it biological
 location.e. Birds are mineral resource.Answer-6 :(a) True. (b) False. Corr. Inf. The Bangladeshi are proud
 of their country, (c) True. (d) False. Corr. Inf. Bangladesh is full of natural resource
 because of its geographical location, (e) False. Corr. Inf. Birds are natural resources.7. Fill in
 the blank with the words from the box:Bangladesh is (a) — of natural resources. Among
 them (b) — are one. One of the common birds (c) — Benebau. It is
 also called (d) — in English. It is found in the (e) — land of
 Bangladesh. Its head and body are of (f) — but its throat, tail and some
 parts of wings are of (g) — . Red is the colour of its (h)
 — . Its length is (i) — and looks like a (j) —.Answer-7 :(a) full;
 (b) birds; (c) is; (d) Black headed Oriole; (e) plain; (f) yellow; (g) black; (h)
 beak; (i) 25 cm.; (j) mayna.8. Put a words in the gaps from the box
 matching their meanings.a. — = a long thin creature with no bones or legs, that
 lives in soil.b. — = a thing given to someone.c. — = full of life
 and energy.d. — = having no empty space.e. — = the outer covering of a
 tree.f. — = feeling pleased and satisfied with something. g. — = existing in nature.h.
 — = level. i. — = enjoyable.j. — = a supply of a country has
 to increase their wealth.Answer-8 :(a) worm; (b) gift; (c) sprightly; (d) full; (e) bark; (f)
 proud; (g) natural; (h) plain; (i) pleasant; (j) resource.
৬ষ্ঠ শ্রেণীর পড়া: ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
৬ষ্ঠ শ্রেণীর পড়া: ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
