২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
 প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ আমরা ইংরেজি প্রথম পত্রের PART-A (Seen Comprehension)-এর দ্বিতীয় passage, অর্থাৎ ৫ থেকে
 ৮ নম্বর প্রশ্ন আলোচনা করব। উল্লেখ্য, দ্বিতীয় passage-এ মোট ৪টি প্রশ্ন থাকে। প্রতিটি প্রশ্নের মান
 ৫। প্রশ্নগুলো তোমরা আগে নিজে চেষ্টা করবে। তারপর উত্তরের সঙ্গে মিলিয়ে নেবে। Set-1Read the following
 passage and answer the questions:In Bangladesh the retirement age for government employees is 59 years
 and for university teachers 65 years. In the United Nations the retirement age is 65
 years. But this does not mean that after this age people suddenly become useless and
 unfit to work. These people are an asset to society with knowledge that only experience
 can bring and need to feel useful and want in society. In the developed countries
 social security is provided by the government in the form of post retirement and old
 age benefits, so that these people get free medical facilities and can also be economically
 independent. In Bangladesh, government employees are granted a pension and there are a few facilities
 at the government hospitals for the old but these are hardly enough. Besides, the majority
 of our female population does not belong to the working class. They are housewives and
 are not eligible for any pension or gratuity. According to the National Bureau of Statistics,
 about 6% of the population of Bangladesh are aged people which came to about 13.3
 Million people in 2000. This includes male and female elderly people both from the villages
 and towns. These people have served their nation and their families through the years. In
 their old age, it is their right to expect serviced from just in return. Their
 physical health had started deteriorating and they need as much care and consideration as possible.
 The government still does not have any system to meet the health and economic needs
 of this large population. We ourselves however must ensure that the elderly among us are
 respected and cared for. After all, can we forget that we ourselves are going to
 grow old one day?5. Write short answers to the following questions. 5a) When does a
 government employee retire in Bangladesh?b) What is the retirement age limit in the United Nations?c)
 Why are the retired people considered an asset?d) Who do not belong to the working
 class?e) What can’t we forget?6. Fill in the gaps with suitable words. 5In the developed
 countries the government (a) — social security, free medical facilities and other benefits to the
 retired old people. But in our country the facilities (b) — to the retired persons
 are not (c) —. They only enjoy a (d) — and a little medical (e)
 —.7. Summarize the above passage in five sentences.58. Based on your reading of the passage,
 make short notes in each of the boxes in the flow chart showing the benefits
 a retired person both in Bangladesh and developed countries enjoy. (No. 1 has been done
 for you). 5Answer to the Question No. Set-1:5. (a) A government employee in Bangladesh retires
 at the age of 59 years. (b) The retirement age limit in the United Nations
 is 65 years. (c) The retired people are considered an asset because their knowledge and
 experience are useful in the society. (d) The majority of our female population do not
 belong to the working class. (e) We can’t forget that we ourselves are going to
 grow old one day.6. (a) provide (b) given (c) sufficient (d) pension (e) facilities7. Summary:
 In Bangladesh a government employee retires at 59 and the university teachers at 65. In
 the United Nations the retirement age is 65 years. In our country retired persons are
 considered useless but they are actually asset to the society with their knowledge and experience.
 They enjoy little benefit. The only enjoy pension. In developed countries the retired persons are
 provided with social security and other facilities.8. Flow chart:# পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল সহকারী অধ্যাপক,
 ঢাকা স্টেট কলেজ, ঢাকা
২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
