৯ম শ্রেণীর শিক্ষার্থীদের জন্য
 নমুনা প্রশ্নের উত্তরপ্রিয় ৯ম শ্রেণীর পরীক্ষার্থী, (২০১৫ সালের এসএসসি পরীক্ষার্থী) শুভেচ্ছা রইল। জাতীয় শিক্ষাক্রম ও
 পাঠ্যপুস্তক বোর্ড ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের প্রশ্নের ধরন ও নম্বর বিভাজন পরিবর্তন করেছে। পরিবর্তিত প্রশ্নের ধরন
 অনুযায়ী এনসিটিবি প্রণীত ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের নমুনা প্রশ্ন গত দুদিন পড়াশোনা পাতায় ছাপা হয়েছে। আজ
 ছাপা হলো নমুনা প্রশ্নের উত্তর।English 1st PaperFull Marks: 100, Time: 3 hours[Answer all the questions.
 Figures in the margin indicate full marks]Answers:1. Answers (Multiple Choice Questions)A. (b)The word enforce (verb)
 means ‘to make people obey a rule or law’. Sentence 2 is about the difficulty
 of making schools students obey the ban on using cell phone at schools. The word
 impose means ‘to officially order that something should be restricted, banned or forbidden’. The word
 ‘impose’ has the closest meaning of ‘enforce’ in this sentence. Therefore (b) is correct.B. (b)text
 (verb) means ‘to send someone a text message by phone’. Therefore, b is the correct
 answer. The other options (a, c, d) given do not make sense in the given
 sentence and are incorrect.C. (d)In paragraph 2, Monica’s mother says that the internet, cell phones,
 and video games are dangerous. At the end of the paragraph she says, ‘This is
 the only way we can be sure that Monica is safe.’ This lets us know
 that Monica’s mom cares about Marcia’s well being. In paragraph 3, we learn about why
 Monica’s dad thinks technology is good for Monica. Moreover, he does not want to take
 technology away from Monica, as this will ‘put her at a disadvantage.’ This lets us
 know that Monica’s dad also cares about Monica’s well being. Therefore (d) is correct.D. (a)In
 paragraph 2, we learn about how Monica’s mom thinks the internet is ‘dangerous and uncontrolled.’
 She is very concerned about her daughter’s well being, and does not want her to
 take any risks. Using this information, we can understand that Monica’s mom can best be
 described as careful (a). As caring about one’s child is not ridiculous, choice (b) is
 incorrect. (c) is incorrect because it is wrong to think that Monica’s mom is cruel
 simple because she has an extreme view of technology. Choice (d) is incorrect, because Monica’s
 mom is never rude, or impolite.E. (a)The second sentence of paragraph 3 helps us to
 know about Monica’s father’s attitude to the internet. It says, ‘Although he agrees that there
 are some dangers with the internet, he likes it and finds it to be very
 useful.’ This let us know that Monica’s Father likes the internet. Therefore, the correct answer
 is (a). It is not said anywhere in the passage that the internet will be
 dangerous in future. Monica’s father thinks that the internet can be useful for young girls
 like Monica. So he does not think that internet is useful only to the adults.F.
 (c)Disadvantage (noun): an unfavorable or poor condition.In paragraph 2, we learn about why Marcia’s dad
 thinks technology is good for Monica. According to him, technology is ‘very useful’. Moreover, he
 does not want to take technology away from Monica, as this will ‘put her at
 a disadvantage.’ That means if Monica does not learn to use the internet, and the
 internet becomes important in the future, she will be at a loss. Therefore, choice (c)
 is correct. The passage does not provide information to support choices (a), (b), and (d).
 Therefore, they are incorrect.G. (b)As we read the whole of the passage, it tells us
 about some advantages as well as advantages of using technology by the children. Therefore, (b)
 is the correct answer. The passage does not only focus on the dangers of technology
 (a) or it does not only highlight the usefulness of technology for children (e). In
 the passage there is no evidence of criticizing schools for putting a ban on cell
 phones. That is options (a), (c) and (d) all are incorrect.2. Answers.a) It is said
 in paragraph 1 that 43 percent of the students who bring their cell phones to
 schools without permission send text messages at least once a day. This is an alarming
 example of inappropriate use of cell phones by students at schools.b) This is said by
 Monica’s mother. She says this to highlight the potential dangers of the internet. Having a
 gun in the house is always risky and one may not always use a gun
 in a controlled way. According to Monica’s mother, having the internet in the house can
 be very harmful for Monica as it is difficult to control.c) Monica’s father thinks that
 video games are enjoyable when played for a reasonable amount of time. He believes that
 one must not play video games for unlimited hours and without self-control.d) Cell phones, Video
 Games and the Internet are all examples of technology. Monica’s mother doesn’t want Monica using
 these devices of technologies, because she is worried that they are dangerous or bad for
 Monica. On the other hand, Monica’s father thinks that Monica should use the technology, because
 it is useful and fun.e) I don’t support Monica’s mother’s concern about using technologies such
 as the internet, cell phones and video games. Technology itself is not dangerous or bad.
 We are living in the age of technology and it can be very useful too.
 However, I think the young children should be taught about using technology responsibly before they
 are allowed to use it.3. Answer (Summary)The issue of using cell phones at school is
 a matter of recent debate. Many schools are struggling to prevent their students from using
 cell phones. Guardians also have different views on allowing children to use technological devices such
 as cell phones, video games and the internet. Monica’s mother is a guardian with a
 conservative attitude to technology. She does not want her daughter to use technology as it
 might cause harm to her. On the other hand, Monica’s father has a much liberal
 attitude to technology. He does not want to deprive Monica of the blessings of technology.
 (100 words).# নমুনা প্রশ্নের উত্তরের বাকি অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল শিক্ষক, ঢাকা পাবলিক স্কুল অ্যান্ড কলেজ,
 ঢাকা
৯ম শ্রেণীর শিক্ষার্থীদের জন্য
৯ম শ্রেণীর শিক্ষার্থীদের জন্য
