২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
 প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ আমরা ইংরেজি প্রথম পত্রের PART-A (Seen Comprehension)-এর দ্বিতীয় passage, অর্থাৎ ৫ থেকে
 ৮ নম্বর প্রশ্ন আলোচনা করব। উল্লেখ্য, দ্বিতীয় passage-এ মোট ৪টি প্রশ্ন থাকে। প্রতিটি প্রশ্নের মান
 ৫। প্রশ্নগুলো তোমরা আগে নিজে চেষ্টা করবে। তারপর উত্তরের সঙ্গে মিলিয়ে নেবে। Set-3Read the passage
 carefully and answer the following questions:Education is the process by which our mind develops through
 formal learning at an institution like a school, college or university. It is mental and
 intellectual training which provides opportunities or growth and helps to meet challenges and overcome obstacles
 to progress. Again, the purpose of education is to enlighten the individual and develop his/her
 capacity to the limit. It is also the business of education to train individuals to
 make the right choices to go ahead. It ennobles our mind and refines our sensibility.
 It also broadens our outlook and helps us become aware of our rights and responsibilities.
 According to Newman, education ‘gives a man a clear conscious view of his own opinions
 and judgments, a truth in developing them, eloquence in expressing them and a force in
 using them.’ Therefore, it is often compared to light which removes the darkness of ignorance
 and helps us distinguish between right and wrong. Ex-President Julius Nyerer of Tanzania way back
 in 1974 said at an international conference that the primary purpose of education was the
 liberation of man from the restrictions of habits and attitudes which limit his humanity. He
 further said education should promote humanity and universal brotherhood and that it could be used
 as a catalyst for a change for the better. How right he was!5. Write short
 answers to the following questions. 5(a) What is education?(b) What do the schools, colleges and
 universities do?(c) What is the purpose of education?(d) Does education make our mind noble?(e) How
 can we meet challenges and overcome obstacles to progress?6. Fill in the gaps with suitable
 words. 5Education enlightens mankind. Newman says ‘(a) — gives a man a clear conscious views
 of his own opinions and judgments, a (b) — in developing them, an eloquence in
 expressing them and a force in using them.’ It is often (c) — to light
 which removes the (d) — of ignorance and helps us distinguish between right and wrong.
 Ex-president Julius Nyerer of Tanzania way back in 1974 said in an international conference that
 the primary purpose of education was the liberation of man from the (e) — of
 habits and attitudes which limit his humanity.7. Summarize five important points of the above passage
 regarding the purpose of education. 58. Based on your reading of the passage, make short
 notes in each of the boxes in the flow chart showing what education does. 5Answer
 to the Question No. Set-35. (a) Education is the process by which our mind develops
 through formal learning. (b) The schools, colleges and universities provide opportunities of growth and help
 to meet challenges and overcome obstacles to progress. (c) The purpose of education is to
 enlighten the individual and develop his/her capacity to the limit. (d) Yes, education makes our
 mind noble. (e) We can meet challenges and overcome obstacles to progress by receiving real
 education.6. (a) education (b) potency (c) compared (d) darkness (e) restriction7. Summary: The process by
 which our mind develops through formal learning at an institution like school, college or university
 is called education. The purpose of education is to enlighten the individual and develop his/her
 capacity to the limit. It helps us overcome all obstacles to progress. It enables our
 mind and refines our sensibility. It trains the individual to the right choice to go
 ahead.8. Flow chart: সহকারী অধ্যাপক, ঢাকা স্টেট কলেজ, ঢাকা
২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
