২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
 প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ আমরা ইংরেজি প্রথম পত্রের PART-A (Seen Comprehension)-এর দ্বিতীয় passage, অর্থাৎ ৫ থেকে
 ৮ নম্বর প্রশ্ন আলোচনা করব। উল্লেখ্য, দ্বিতীয় passage-এ মোট ৪টি প্রশ্ন থাকে। প্রতিটি প্রশ্নের মান
 ৫। প্রশ্নগুলো তোমরা আগে নিজে চেষ্টা করবে। তারপর উত্তরের সঙ্গে মিলিয়ে নেবে। Set-4Read the passage
 carefully and answer the following questions:Television has become the most common and widespread source of
 entertainment of the present world. A wide range of programmers of varied interest is telecast
 on numerous cannels. Almost every middle class and even working class families have a television
 set today. Television programmers are not only entertaining; they can be highly educative too. For
 example, television is used for distance learning. Courses run by the Open University are shown
 on BTV. Several channels telecast highly informative programmers. Watching TV, however, has become an addiction
 for many. Satellite telecasting has added new dimensions to television but it has sometimes been
 branded as a cultural assault on developing nations. The East is being exposed more and
 more to Western music, entertainment and modes of life. As a result, young people’s testes
 are gradually being influenced by them.5. Write short answers to the following questions. 5(a) How
 has television become an addiction for many?(b) How does satellite telecast influence our young generation?(c)
 What do you mean by cultural assault?(d) What part does television play in our education?(e)
 What do you think are the good effects of television?6. Fill in the gaps with
 suitable words. 5Television is a (a) — means of communication and recreation. After day’s work,
 we sit before a television (b) — and enjoy different programmes. Television can educate the
 people to the current (c) — of the world. Some vulgar programmes destroy the (d)
 — of the young people. The students become (e) — to watching programmes and lose
 their valuable time.7. Summarize the above passage in five sentences. 58. Based on your reading
 of the passage, make short notes in each of the boxes in the flow chart
 showing demerits of watching television. (No. 1 has been done for you). 5Answer to the
 Question No. Set-45. (a) Television has become an addiction for many by telecasting a wide
 range of programmes of varied interest on numerous channels. (b) Satellite telecast influences our young
 generation by exposing more and more western music, entertainment and modes of life. (c) Cultural
 assault means the degradation of a country’s culture because of the influence of other country’s
 culture. (d) Television plays an important role in the sense that it is used for
 transmitting distance learning. (e) I think the good effects of TV are telecasting both informative
 and educative programmes.6. (a) common/widespread (b) set (c) news/information(d) morality/character (e) addicted7. Summary: Nowadays television
 is the most common source of entertainment all over the world. It also telecasts educational
 programmes. It is used for distance learning. The channels like discovery channel and the National
 Geographic Channel telecast highly informative programmes. But sometimes it is treated as cultural assault on
 the developing nations. It has a great influence on American children. It also influences their
 learning style.8. Flow chart:# পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল
২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
২০১৪ সালের এইচএসসি পরীক্ষা
