৬ষ্ঠ শ্রেণীর পড়াশোনা: ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
 Lesson-15প্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ তোমাদের জন্যদেওয়া হলো ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের লেসন-১৫ থেকে কিছু প্রশ্নোত্তর।3. fill in
 the blanks with your own words.When a lion (a) — beside a river, he (b)
 — his own image in the water. He was the king of the jungle but
 his (c) — was very old. He (d) — that this hairstyle did not (e)
 — with his position. So, he (f) — to change his hairstyle. Consequently, when all
 the animals (g) —, they spoke of many (h) —. But the lion (i) —
 the snake's suggestion and he got his (j) —.Answer: 3.(a) sat; (b) saw;(c) mane; (d)
 thought;(e) match; (f) decided;(g) gathered; (h) things;(i) liked; (j) solution.4. Make five sentences from the
 substitution table.Answer: 4.a. The lion was upset for his look.b. The vulture suggested ribbons for
 the king.c. Paper crown was suggested by the hyena.d. The snake suggested nothing but a
 wise saying.e. A wise king does not bother about his look.5. Rearrange the following sentence:But
 he could realize the truth hearing from a snake So, he decided not to bother
 about his look again. A lion was upset for his hairstyle. Different animals suggested different
 things for him. He wanted a change.Answer: 5.A lion was upset for his hairstyle. He
 wanted change. Different animals suggested different thing for him. But the could realize the truth
 hearing from a snake. So, he decided not to bother about his look again.6. True
 or false. If false, give the correct answer.a. A lioness was sitting beside a pond.b.
 The lion thinks his mane very old-fashioned.c. His mane was unruly.d. The lion dipped his
 paw into water.e. The Hyena asked him to mix a bit of colour with his
 hair.Answer: 6.(a) False. Corr. Inf. A lion was sitting beside a river. (b) False. Corr.
 Inf. Suddenly the lion saw his own reflection. (c) True. (d) True. (e) False. Corr.
 Inf. The Giraffe asked him to mix a bit of colour with his hair. সহকারী অধ্যাপক,
 বিএমটিটিআই, গাজীপুর # পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল
৬ষ্ঠ শ্রেণীর পড়াশোনা: ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
৬ষ্ঠ শ্রেণীর পড়াশোনা: ইংরেজি ১ম পত্র
