২০১৪ সালের এসএসসির প্রস্তুতি
 Seen Comprehensionসুপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা কেমন আছো। আশা করি ভালো আছো। আজ তোমাদের ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের Seen
 Comprehension নিয়ে আলোচনা করব। গতকালদেওয়া প্যাসেজের ওপর আজ দেওয়া হলো কিছু প্রশ্নোত্তর।1. Choose the best
 answer from the alternatives.(a) During the Tang Dynasty there was the flourishment of —.(i) fine
 culture (ii) Patronizing art and Cultural society (iii) art and sculpture (iv) nature like landscapes(b)
 The royal court — many fine artists.(i) ran (ii) looked after (iii) financed(iv) whipped(c) —
 helped to produce a rich blue decoration.(i) The excellent technique of the painters (ii) The
 fire (iii) The mixture of ground cobalt and water (iv) The discovery.(d) Tang paintings —.(i)
 had the honour to judge later arts(ii) could not exist for long (iii) could maintain
 the appeal for certain period (iv) had perished(e) China was enjoying prosperity in the field
 of arts for — years.(i) 89 (ii) 288 (iii) 289 (iv) 2382. Write whether the
 statements are true or false. If false, give the correct answer.(a) The decorative art of
 China displays excellent beauty.(b) Song paintings were not imitated at all.(c) The 7th, 8th and
 9th century were the prosperous period for Chinese arts.(d) Innocent nature dominated the mind of
 the artists of Song dynasty.(e) The royal family appreciated the blue and white vases very
 much.3. Fill in each gap in the following passage with a suitable word from the
 box. There are more words than necessary.founded—today—appreciated—then —taken—dominated—display— depicted—retained—characteristics —supported—technicallyThe Chinese through their art and
 paintings (a) — excellence more on (b) — rather than beauty. During the Tang Dynasty,
 landscape (c) — the world of painting in China. The (d) — of the paintings
 at that period was bright blue and green colours. The royal family of China (e)
 — a painting academy, promoted and (f) — many fine artists. The royal family (g)
 — those arts and paintings that (h) bird and animal themes, portraits of pets and
 children were also very popular with them. Chinese art and painting has (i) — the
 popular courtly floral and portrait styles of song paintings even (j) —.4. Read the passage
 in ‘A’ again. Now write a paragraph based on the information about the vases, decorative
 art and painting during Yuan period and Tang Dynasty. Use the clues in the list
 below. Write the information in the correct sequence as it appears in the text. The
 paragraph should not exceed 70 words.achievement—portrait—popularity— flourish—bottles—furniture—Produced5. Read the passage in A again. Now answer
 the following questions in your own words.a) What are the characteristics of the paintings of
 Tang Dynasty?b) Why were the works of arts used?c) What were the merchants wealthy officials
 and the imperial court most fond of?d) What does the phrase ‘growth and prosperity’ mean
 in the text?e) What became standard to assess art and painting later on in China? শিক্ষক
 (প্রা.), ঢাকা পাবলিক স্কুল অ্যান্ড কলেজ, ঢাকা পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল
২০১৪ সালের এসএসসির প্রস্তুতি
২০১৪ সালের এসএসসির প্রস্তুতি
