এইচএসসি পরীক্ষার প্রস্তুতি
 Part-B: Vocabulary Testপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, আজ আমরা ইংরেজি ১ম পত্রের Part-B (Vocabulary Test) অর্থাৎ ৯ ও
 ১০ নম্বর প্রশ্ন আলোচনা করব। প্রতিটি প্রশ্নের মান ১০। প্রশ্নগুলো তোমরা আগে নিজে চেষ্টা করবে।
 তারপর উত্তরের সঙ্গে তা মিলিয়ে নেবে। Set-69. Fill in each gap with a suitable word
 from the box (make any grammatical changes, if necessary). There are more words in the
 box than you need. 10Once upon a time, there was a King who was very
 fond of (a) — his future from the astrologers. A famous astrologer (b) — to
 stop at his capital on his way to Benaras. The King called on him to
 know about his future and the astrologer told him something (c) —. At this the
 King got (d) — and condemned him to (e) — saying, ‘Men like you should
 not live to (f) — the peace of the world’. But another thought had crossed
 his mind before the astrologer was removed for (g) —. ‘How long will you live?’
 asked the King. With ready (h) — the astrologer said, ‘The stars (i) — that
 I shall die only a week before your majesty. So, good bye.’ Hearing this, the
 King turned pale like a dead man and shouted, ‘Drive this (j) — away, let
 him not come here again.’10. Fill in the blanks with an appropriate word in each
 gap: 10One day a lad went to a famous teacher and having expressed his desires
 to (a) — knowledge, begged him to (b) — him in the arts and sciences.
 The learned man, wishing to (c) — out what sort of ability the lad (d)
 —, asked him where God (e) —. The lad replied, ‘I will answer you, if
 you will first (f) — me where he is (g) —’. The sage, from this
 sensible (h) —, thought highly of the boy’s (i) — and according to his (j)
 — perfected him in his studies. Thus the wisdom of the wise manifests itself early.Ans.
 to the Ques. No. Set-69. (a) knowing (b) happened (c) unpleasant(d) angry/furious (e) death (f)
 spoil(g) execution (h) wit (i) declare/prove(j) wretch10. (a) gain (b) teach (c) find (d) had
 (e) is(f) tell (g) not (h) reply (i) wit (j) ability# পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে
 আগামীকাল
এইচএসসি পরীক্ষার প্রস্তুতি
এইচএসসি পরীক্ষার প্রস্তুতি
