৭ম শ্রেণীর মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
 সুপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীবৃন্দ, শুভেচ্ছা নিয়ো। নতুন প্রশ্নকাঠামোর আলোকে তোমাদের জন্য গতকাল প্রকাশিত ইংরেজি প্রথম পত্রের পূর্ণাঙ্গ
 মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর আজ দেওয়া হলো।English First PaperTime: 3 hours, Full marks: 80 অংশ-১Answer to
 the question number-1:a. iv. 21st Century. b. iii. Miss Nishat c. ii. the Morality Shop
 d. ii. 23 May, 2013 e. i. RiahAnswer to the question number-2:a. The letter has
 come from Hridoy, cousin to Riah.b. Riah told her teacher Miss Nishat, classmates, relatives and
 friends about the interesting piece of the news.c. Miss Nishat, Teacher of Riah, likes the
 idea of the shop without a shopkeeper very much.d. They had already a meeting in
 their school with teachers and to their Head teacher.e. Riah read out the part of
 the letter written by Hridoy.f. The reaction of the Head teacher about the shop was
 very positive.g. The members of the committee formed to draw up a plan for opening
 a morality shop are Miss Nishat with two other teachers and some senior students including
 Riah.Answer to the question number-3:a. receives; b. cousin; c. thrills; d. excited; e. almost; f.
 Hearing; g. call; h. assertive; i. such; j. extend.Answer to the question number-4:a. 12 May
 2013 Riah wrote a letter to Hridoy.b. Jonakipur High School is situated in the district
 of Nilphamari.c. Riah read out the part of Hridoy’s letter.d. The Head teacher was very
 positive about the Morality Shop.e. Morality shop spreads morality among the people of the community.Answer
 to the question number-5:A letter sent by Hridoy, has surprised Riah, cousin of Hridoy, so
 much that she fails to believe herself. Getting an exciting piece of news, she talks
 with Miss Nishat, about the Morality Shop opened by the school of Hridoy. Morality Shop
 is contributing expanding morality and other human virtues among the new generation along with all
 races of people of the community. Being explained by Riah in the meeting, the Head
 teacher has formed a committee to set up such an impressive shop. Riah, being a
 member of the committee formed by the Head teacher becomes delighted and next weekend she
 is going to see the Morality Shop in the school of Hridoy.Answer to the question
 number-6:Joynul, an industrious man, lived in a remote village with his wife. He lived his
 life by working hard. One day, not getting any job he became very angry and
 came back home but did not get his meal ready. He started quarrelling with his
 wife Nazma but she made him understand that to lead a very happy life both
 money and homework are equally important that he never realized before. At last realizing the
 truth, he expressed gratitude and admiration to his wife.Answer to the question number-7:The Morality ShopRiah,
 cousin of Hridoy receives a letter from her cousin. Riah getting astonished told it to
 everybody. All of them became surprised as well. Miss Nishat, her English teacher, talked with
 the Head teacher about the shop. She likes the idea so much that she immediately
 talked with the Head teacher about it. The Head teacher called a meeting. Being explained
 by Riah, the Head teacher formed a committee containing both teachers and students so that
 the committee can draw up a plan to open such a shop without a shopkeeper.
 He was confirmed about the usefulness of the shop. Riah become delighted for being a
 member of the committee. She writes Hridoy that at the weekend she is going to
 see the Morality Shop situated in his school.# পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল
৭ম শ্রেণীর মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
৭ম শ্রেণীর মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
