৭ম শ্রেণীর মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
 সুপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীবৃন্দ, শুভেচ্ছা নিয়ো। আজ দেওয়া হলো নতুন প্রশ্নকাঠামোর আলোকে আগে প্রকাশিত ইংরেজি প্রথম পত্রের
 পূর্ণাঙ্গ মডেল টেস্টের উত্তরের বাকি অংশ।English First PaperTime: 3 hours, Full marks: 80n অংশ-২Answer to
 the question number-8: AÊHomemakerA homemaker, one of the most important sacrificing persons, is a person whose
 main task is to manage of his or her own family, home and children. Generally
 most of the tasks of a family are performed by women. In the Indian subcontinent,
 the tasks of a homemaker are performed by the housewife. Now it has become a
 traditional task of a woman who spends most of her time caring for the family.
 A homemaker plays a very significant role in the family. Without the task of hers,
 it is really difficult to lead a very comfortable life in the family. Generally a
 homemaker has to perform the duties of preparing meals, buying, cooking and serving food, washing-up
 after meals and cleaning the house. She is also assigned to decorate room, ornaments and
 choose the house hold chores, wash and iron clothes, and to help getting children ready
 for schools. She also purchases new clothes and other family needs. In sense she has
 to accomplish almost all the jobs necessary for the family. She has to assist the
 children bathing and dressing, feeding babies, playing with them, etc. Her contribution to the family
 is immeasurable. The task performed by a homemaker is so important that it cannot be
 measured financially.  A professional person only works during the working hours whereas a homemaker spends
 the whole day for the welfare, happiness, and betterment of the family. So, the other
 members of the family should assist her and should be grateful to her. Answer to the
 question number-9:5/3, Evana Cottage, Nurjahan Road, FeniMarch, 2013.Dear Hira,                                                                                                                                                                     Receive my cordial love at the
 very outset of the letter. I have received your letter just now. I am so
 delighted to learn from your letter that you are well by the grace of Almighty
 Allah.I reached home safe and sound in the evening of the same day after I
 had taken leave of you. I met nothing unpleasant on the way. I was extremely
 impressed and gratified at the hospitality of every member of your family. What a world
 of care of you and your brother and sister took of me! How affectionate your
 parents were! I will never forget the days I spent at your house in your
 midst. I was really charmed at the loving care of your parents as well. It
 gives immense pleasure when I think of your younger sister Rehnaj and brother Tamzid who
 respected me as their own brother and always assisted me cordially when I needed anything.
 I will not be able to forget even your maid servant who took every trouble
 to make my stay comfortable at your sweet home. Really, the sweet memory of my
 short stay at your house will remain ever fresh in the cord of my heart.No
 more today. We are pretty well. Convey my profound respect to your parents and love
 to Rehnaj and Tamzid.Your loving friend,RupomAn envolope shoud be given here. Answer to the question number-10:20
 June, 2013The Headmaster,Green  Residential Model School,Mohammadpur, Dhaka-1207. Subject:  Prayer for a seat in the school hostelSir,With
 due respect and humble submission, I beg to state that I am a student of
 class eight in your school. I have been living here in Dhaka with my parents
 for four years. My father is a government official. Recently, he has been transferred from
 Dhaka to Jessore. The family of ours has already shifted there. Consequently, I have been
 suffering much for want of accommodation. My studies have been greatly hampered as well. Moreover,
 I have no relations in the city with whom I can stay. So, I am
 badly in need of a seat in the school hostel. Otherwise, it would be impossible
 on my part to continue my study in your college.  In the circumstances stated above, we
 pray and hope that your honour would be kind enough to allot me a seat
 in the school hostel and oblige thereby.I remain Sir,Yours obedientlyMirsab-Ul-IslamClass: SevenCollege No:  01528 Answer to the
 question number-11:The graph depicts the information about the percentage of marks that a student of
 class seven has obtained in the half yearly examination 2013.  This is a bar chart
 that represents the marks obtained by a student are not same in the above mentioned
 subjects. It demonstrates that the student obtained 77% marks in Bangla, 89% marks in English,
 85% marks in Mathematics, 76% marks in Science and 68% marks in Religion.  The chart
 demonstrates that the student obtained highest percentage of marks in English and the lowest marks
 he obtained in Religion. It is also depicted that he is weak in religion and
 good at English and Mathematics. Answer to the question number-12:My Aim in Life        A proverb goes
 that a man without an aim is like a ship without a rudder. A ship
 without rudder faces danger. Similarly a man without aim cannot reach to his goal. He
 stumbles in his way of life. So, every man should have a definite aim in
 life. But nothing is more difficult than the choice of a profession because the world
 is as mysterious as a sea. Students find it very difficult to choose a suitable
 profession because there are many paths and courses open to them. But all the paths
 and courses are not suitable for all. Some may be good and some may be
 bad. If a student or man can choose a suitable profession for himself, he may
 reach to his goal. On the contrary, a man or a student fails to choose
 his profession; he suffers in life and drags a miserable existence.Difference persons have different aims.
 Some wants to be doctors, some wants to be engineers and other wants to be
 teachers and so on. But my aim in life is to be a doctor. My
 parents and teachers have given their consent to my choice. There are many reasons for
 choosing the profession of a doctor.The village people in our country are very poor. They
 suffer from various diseases but there is no qualified doctor to serve them. There are
 a few quack but they cannot serve them properly. Rather they extort money from the
 simple folks. Many people meet untimely death for want of proper treatment. So, I have
 decided to serve the people of my village through the profession.I am now a student
 of class six. I have been learning every single subject with great attention. Especially I
 have been emphasizing on the subjects related to science. I have been learning English and
 increasing the vocabulary so that I can secure very good marks in all subjects. I
 have three significant phases in my life, which I want to overcome with remarkable success.I
 want to make brilliant success in Junior School Certificate Examination, Secondary School Certificate Examination and
 Higher Secondary Certificate Examination. I am sure that I will succeed in the above mentioned
 examinations. After passing H.S.C examination with brilliant result I shall get myself admitted into a
 medical college. After obtaining the MBBS degree I shall go back to my native village
 and set myself to serve my village people through practice.Since my boyhood it was my
 cherished desire to serve the nation. So I shall render free service to the poor
 villagers is shall not take any money from them. It is my determination to set
 up a charitable dispensary and distribute medicines to the poor free of cost. I have
 also a plan to set up a hospital with few beds for serious cases. I
 shall stop the practice of the quack.Success in life depends much on the proper choice
 of a profession. Since I am determined in my aim, I am confident that I
 will be able to reach my goal and serve the nation. প্রভাষক, ইংরেজি বিভাগ, ঢাকা রেসিডেনসিয়াল
 মডেল কলেজ
৭ম শ্রেণীর মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
৭ম শ্রেণীর মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
