জুনিয়র স্কুল সার্টিফিকেট পরীক্ষা: মডেল টেস্ট
 প্রিয় জেএসসি পরীক্ষার্থীরা, শুভেচ্ছা নিয়ো। তোমরা হয়তো ইতিমধ্যে জেনে থাকবে, NCTB সর্বশেষ মানবণ্টন ও প্রশ্নকাঠামোর
 আলোকে নমুনা প্রশ্ন প্রকাশ করেছে। নতুন এ প্রশ্নকাঠামোর আলোকে আজ তোমাদের জন্য দেওয়া হলো ইংরেজি
 প্রথম পত্রের পূর্ণাঙ্গ মডেল টেস্টের প্রথম অংশ।English 1st PaperFull marks: 100: Time: 3 hours[Answer all
 the questions. Figures in the margin indicate full marks]Part-A: Reading Test (60 Marks)Read the given
 text carefully and answer the questions No 1-2:Global warming, known as the greenhouse effect, is
 one of the burning issues in the present world. Though it has received much attention
 in recent years, it is not a recent problem. Every year, almost 7 billion tons
 of carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere by human activity. Global warming is in
 the earth’s upper atmosphere directly caused by increasing amount of carbon di-oxide, CFC gas, burning
 of fossil fuels, industrial waste, farming, and deforestation. Every year we see natural disasters that
 are extremely powerful. For example, In April of 2011, Japan was hard hit by an
 earthquake that took the lives of thousands of people. If we ignore the fact now
 the result will be catastrophic. Since the beginning of 20th century, the average surface temperature
 has increased by 1.1 degree Celsius. Just in the past 40 years, it has risen
 by a half of a degree. As of now the global sea level is rising
 three times faster than in the last hundred years when compared to the last three
 thousand years. This doesn’t sound like much right away but any change in temperature causes
 melting to the polar ice caps. If they continue to melt, the sea level will
 start to rise dramatically. Furthermore, it is a fact that the average rise in temperature
 globally is 1.1 degree. It is high time we solved this problem and created a
 congenial atmosphere for our future generation.1. Guess the meaning of the following words and choose
 the correct meaning closest to the text. 5×1=5i) disaster— a) excess b) catastrophe c) dreadful
 d) sufficientii) extremely— a) huge b) confident c) tremendouslyd) passionatelyiii) deforestation— a) cutting down trees
 in a large scaleb) planting trees c) nursing trees d) be passionate to treesiv dramatically—
 a) radical b) catastrophic c) determinatelyd) noticeablyv) release— a) hold b) produce c) explore d)
 amplify2. Answer the following questions: 5×2=10a) What is the burning issue in the current world?b)
 What are the causes of global warming?c) How fast is the sea level rising?d) What
 will happen if people ignore global warming?e) What causes melting the polar ice caps?Read the
 following text carefully and answer question 3 and 4.Science and technology have come to pervade
 every aspect of our lives. As a result, society is changing at a great speed
 which is quite exceptional. There is a great technological explosion around us, generated by science.
 This explosion has already freed a vast number of people from their traditional bondage to
 nature. Now at last we have it in our power to free mankind one and
 for all from the fear which is based on want. Now, for the first time
 man can reasonably begin to think that life can be something more than grim struggle
 for survival. But even today, in spite of the high standard of living which has
 become general in the more fortunate West. The majority of people in the world still
 spend nearly all their time and energy in a never ending struggle with nature to
 secure the food and shelter they need.3. Complete the following table with the information given
 in the passage. 5×1=5Who/What/Where Descriptionsocietyhas generated scientific explosionThe fearLifespend time and energy for food and
 shelter4. Read the passage again and write True or False beside the following statements. Give
 answers for the false statements. 5×1=5(a) Science has come to pervade every aspect of our
 life.(b) Science has generated technological explosion.(c) Life can be thought as something more than grim
 struggle.(d) Most of the people in the world spend all the time and energy in
 never-ending struggle with nature.(e) Nowadays people cannot enjoy a high standard of living.5. Fill in
 the gaps with appropriate word: 1×5=5Bangladesh is full of natural resources. The prosperity of the
 country (a)—on the proper of utilization of the resources. We should not (b)—a lazy life.
 We should all (c)—up our country. For this reason we have to (d)—hard. No nation
 can prosper without industry. It should be (e)—that “Industry is the key to success.”6. Read
 the passage and summarize the following text in around 50 words. 10An earthquake which strikes
 every part of the earth possesses such great power that they cause extensive damage. Building,
 bridges and railways are wrecked; arid explosion and fire are caused. Dangerous avalanches on mountain
 sides and huge tidal waves caused. Earthquakes caused death and the destruction in Lisbon (1755)
 and Peru (1970). An earthquake shifted the subcontinent of Alaska 80 feet into the sea.
 Scientists can not stop earthquakes, but they can pin point earthquake areas for the people
 to be warned.7. Rearrange the following sentences in correct order. 10(a) He showed it to
 his wife.(b) However he picked it up and carried it home.(c) The lands yielded him
 some crops.(d) One day he was walking through the fields.(e) He thought that it might
 have been dropped by a passer-by.(f) With that he supported his family with difficulty.(g) He
 had a few acres of land.(h) So he always thought that he could add his
 income.(i) There lived a farmer in a village.(j) While walking he came across a purse
 of gold.8. Fill in the gaps using clues from the boxes. There are more words
 than necessary. 1/2 ×10=05speedily dint modern securingthink struggling almost seentechnological scarcity afraid emancipated প্রভাষক, ঢাকা রেসিডেনসিয়াল
 মডেল কলেজ, ঢাকা পরবর্তী অংশ ছাপা হবে আগামীকাল
জুনিয়র স্কুল সার্টিফিকেট পরীক্ষা: মডেল টেস্ট
জুনিয়র স্কুল সার্টিফিকেট পরীক্ষা: মডেল টেস্ট
