জেএসসি পরীক্ষা: মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
 সুপ্রিয় শিক্ষার্থীরা, শুভেচ্ছা নিয়ো। নতুন প্রশ্নকাঠামোর আলোকে গতকাল প্রকাশিত ইংরেজি ২য় পত্রের মডেল টেস্ট-এর উত্তর
 আজ দেওয়া হলো।Part- A: Grammar (30 Marks)Answer to the question number-1 :(a) a; (b) an;
 (c) the; (d) a; (e) x; (f) theAnswer to the question number-2 :(a) to; (b)
 of; (c) of; (d) for; (e) to; (f) in.Answer to the question number-3 :(a) Our
 country has many villages.(b) There are many people living here in peace.(c) The village people
 live a very simple life.(d) The natural beauty of the villages attracts people most.Answer to
 the question number-4 :(a) Everybody wants to be happy.(b) There is no mother but loves
 her child.(c) It is a matter of shame that he is a cheat.(d) Very few
 metals are as precious as gold.(e) Everyone would admit that he had done it.Answer to
 the question number-5 :(a) The teacher told that honesty is the best policy.(b) The boy
 exclaimed with sorrow that he was undone.(c) Mehnaj asked Tamzid how he completed the work
 within a short time.(d) He asked me if I had learnt the lesson.Answer to the
 question number-6 :(a) sovereignty; (b) symbolic; (c) territorial; (d) reminds.Answer to the question number-7:(a) The
 boy who came here is my nephew, Shakib.(b) Have you ever heard the name of
 Chinua Achebe?(c) I love to go to visit Cox’s Bazar.Answer to the question number-8 :(a)
 added; (b)is (c) works; (d) has become ; (e) having; (f) use; (g) providing; (h)
 derail.Part- B: Writing Test (20 Marks)Answer to the question number-9 :21 June, 2013The Headmaster,Daud Public
 School,Jessore Cantonment, JessoreSubject : Prayer for buying more books for the school library.Sir,With due respect
 and humble submission, we beg to state that ours is a renowned high school in
 the city. There are nearly four thousand students in our school. Most of us are
 eager to learn more and more. Only the textbooks cannot satisfy our thirst for knowledge.
 So, we want to quench our thirst for knowledge by reading novels, poetries, plays, stories,
 biographies, etc. But number of books in the library has remained almost the same for
 five years. They are very insufficient in proportion to the number of students. Most of
 the books available in the library have become tattered because of over use. Many important
 reference books are not available in the library. It is not possible for students to
 buy all kinds of books from the market. Moreover, it is needless to say how
 helpful a good library may be both to the students and the teachers. The books
 that we have in our library are inadequate. As such, we cannot get books according
 to our need and choice. So, we need more books to satisfy our thirst.In the
 circumstances stated above, we pray and hope that your honour would be kind enough to
 buy more books for our school library and oblige thereby.I remain Sir,Yours obedientlyTamzid HossainClass: Eight;
 College No: 010101Answer to the question number 10 : Try Yourself.  প্রভাষক, ঢাকা রেসিডেনসিয়াল মডেল কলেজ,
 ঢাকা
জেএসসি পরীক্ষা: মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
জেএসসি পরীক্ষা: মডেল টেস্টের উত্তর
